---
title: "Hello World!"
date: 2022-08-26T13:51:51+05:30
draft: false
---

I am Umang Tiwary, a Senior Software Engineer at smallcase Technologies Private Limited (STPL). This will probably be my longest post of all. So hold on and read along.

I have given my services for 5 years at this organization. I was the 16th employee of STPL (SC0016). I still clearly remember the day when I got placed in STPL. It was a rainy day at Starbucks, Indiranagar, Bangalore with the CTO and VP of Engineering, STPL. Phew!

Let’s go back a little in my journey.

I was born in Ranchi, Jharkhand. My father, Lallan Kumar Tiwary, is a professor in the chemistry department of RIE (Regional Institute of Education) and my mother, Poonam Tiwary, is a school teacher. My parents were probably the strictest parents you could ever meet. And I have no regrets in saying that I deserved all those beatings and scolding. Things have changed now. My mother teaches in Kopal Higher Secondary School, Bhopal. I was a very naughty kid when I was growing up, and my parents realized the fact very soon, hence they were control freaks. I can today proudly say that whatever I have become is because of them. I hope they are proud of me too. We don’t talk like we used to when I was growing up - a dysfunctional family. I hope to change this very soon.

I did my primary schooling in a Chhattisgarh Board school. We used to live on rent throughout my childhood, starting from pre-primary till 7th standard.

Long story short my parents moved from Dhamtari, a district near Raipur to Bhopal and I got admission to Bal Bhavan School.

I used to struggle a lot during my school days. Coming from a small city to a capital city was not easy. Fellow classmates used to judge my English accent like anything. “Umang pronounces Madam and Medem” were the type of comments I used to hear. But I made a lot of friends, and had a lot of crushes - nothing materialized ever. Had no phone till the 11th standard. We used to live in the RIE campus which was around 2-3 km from Bal Bhavan School. I got interested in Mathematics during my 8th-9th standard and I was so addicted to solving NCERT, RD Sharma, RS Agrawal and many other reference books that I used to complete my syllabus in mid-term itself and finish up 6-7 notebooks of 300 - 400 pages each.

Those were crazy times (2007-2011). So much competition and I was clueless. I had to take the science stream, there was no other option. I enrolled myself in a JEE coaching institute called Vision Infinity Private Limited. Life got so, so hectic. I once remember my mother telling me that “Hey! You have started blabbering physics formulas in your sleep. Are you ok?". I said, “Yeah. All is good”. But the fact of the matter was that I was not feeling ok with the competitive nature of the students near me. Students used to behave very differently and call each other random names and judge each other on the basis of weekly or monthly tests.

In the end, I was not able to qualify for either JEE or AIEEE. I mean I could, but got no calls from any good colleges. Luckily I had gotten to know about an exam called BITSAT which students and teachers used to consider sub-par as compared to other exams since BITS Pilani is a private institute with extraordinarily high fees compared to other government institutions. Just to give you an idea, our 1st semester started with Rs 1 lakh per semester and we ended up finishing graduation at Rs 2 lakh per semester. There was an increment in tuition fees every semester, as compared to IITs/NITs where fees per semester get fixed as soon as one enters the campus. Sat in BITSAT exam, did not get good marks again. I got 294 out of 360 in which you could only get streams like Chemical Engineering or dual degree programs. Had no other choice but to join BITS Pilani Goa Campus.

Life in BITS was very different. There were kids who spoke different languages, came from different parts of the country and lived together in single campus. There was no concept of out-hostel. You had to live inside the campus. Goa campus, amongst other 3 (Pilani, Hyderabad and Dubai), is known for its diverse culture and inter-disciplinary courses. The amount of freedom one gets is just insane. Since it was Goa, there were again strict rules and regulations again.

I still carry some of the books from our curriculum like Modern Political Concepts by Andrew Heywood, Introduction to Probability and Statistics, Signals and Systems, Control Systems Engineering, Data Communication and Networking etc. You never know what can help when! An interesting fact is that I was enrolled in the Chemical Engineering department and then got upgraded to Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering. 1st and 2nd year was good - scored decent marks. Students were into competition again, but this time I decided not to focus on competition and only focus on studying what I like and leave the rest of the baggage behind.

My best friends from campus are living in cities like Mumbai, Bangalore, and Jaipur happily. Saurabh Nigam is one of them. He comes from almost the same background as I do. I loved teaching him during my college days. He used to miss a lot of classes which I used to attend, and 1 day/night before the exams, we used to revise the entire syllabus together. I still remember the day when I got very high marks in the Signals and Systems course, probably 4-5 rank in the entire batch, and I couldn’t teach him well the day before - but we cheated during the exams. And he also got exactly the same marks as me. We copied each other’s answer sheets point by point. The rest of the students were jealous of us on that day.

But then 3rd and 4th years happened. Life derailed very quickly. From 6.5 - 7 pointers out of 10, I suddenly became a 5-pointer. It was a struggle to score well in exams. I used to feel amused when students used to score 8-9 points. I used to tell lies to my parents about the marks I scored. But I never failed in any of the subjects. The lowest I would have gotten is 4 points in a subject which used to be considered a “pass”. I saw a lot of students getting de-railed during that phase. I used to empathize with them.

Finally, after all this, I got an internship opportunity at the Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, DRDO, Bangalore in my 4th year/1st semester in 2016. This was the first time I met students from all three campuses. We had a crazy time.

I’ll tell you crazy discrimination in terms of pay - students who had more than 7 CGPA were paid a sum total of 60000 for working for 6 months in 2 tranches, and students below 7 CGPA were not paid anything. I was dependent on my father’s income again. I had hoped for something else though. But all being said, I used to enjoy my work a lot. I used to work with my mentor to assist him in the Simultaneous Localization and Mapping Algorithms. The problem statement was - say you have a robot with all the sensors installed in it. Now if a map is given to that robot, it should be very easy to navigate the area, right? - since the map is known - a line follower robot. Now let’s say the robot is given the initial coordinates and the map is not given, again it should be able to navigate itself in the area, detecting obstacles and moving along. The core problem statement which my mentor, Shashank Bushan, was trying to solve was that - say both the map and initial coordinates are not given, how will the robot navigate in an unknown area? Advanced stuff! Check out Robot Operating System and RTAB MAP package for more details on the implementation. I had a great time working with my mentor and he’ll always be in my thoughts.

4th year - 2nd semester was placement season for us. I did not get placed in any of that D0 - D8 companies. Finally got an offer from Sabre Travel Solutions Private Limited, the same company where my friend Saurabh Nigam had gotten placed. We were very happy. I told myself that at least now life can start afresh and we all can start earning and living independently. But you know, life challenges you at each moment of time and one must be ready to take up those challenges. Sabre had some corporate restructuring going on at that time, and they were not handing over our offer letters till very late. All the students who got their jobs with me were already sitting happily in their flats/apartments and earning huge bucks - and here I was, sitting and waiting for my offer letter. But nothing could be done. I fought with my parents and again came to Bangalore. This was June 2017.

An interesting project which I took in my last semester was Deep Learning on Google’s SVHN dataset. The problem statement was that using any camera, the deep learning model should be able to detect the house number by just taking an image of the number plate. The challenge here was that the model should be able to detect each digit/character correctly as well as should be able to detect a correct sequence of those digits. Andrej Karpathy’s course of CS231n was a saviour here.

I started preparing for coding interviews along with my friend Antriksh Vijay and Gaurav Narula, both extremely smart and intelligent folks. I also got to know about smallcase via angel list and applied randomly one day.

I forgot to tell you about one of my good experience with a startup called Ensieg - sports grounds booking app. They are shut now, but I had gone to Hyderabad to work with them for 1 month. That’s where I got addicted to 0 -> 1 problem-solving. Trust me, it’s an addiction which is very difficult to get out of. Playo used to be our competitor at that time, but because of some reason, the idea couldn’t fly. I still remember those sleepless nights spent seeing PIIs of beta signed-up users and passing on the information to founders and team members.

Coming back to STPL. I had a great conversation with the CTO and VP. They called me to Starbucks, Indiranagar for the final round where I was not expecting any technical questions, but the CTO surprised me with a 2-3 hour-long technical discussion. I was sweating in AC, not able to eat anything they offered. But they liked me somehow and decided to give me the offer letter. Meanwhile, in Sabre, the HR team had woken up and had started calling us for joining dates and pre-onboarding rituals. Now I was in dilemma of where to give my services. That’s where Gaurav Narula helped me decide and navigate through the stock market industry, or simply put fintech industry. I still remember the day when I had 2 offer letters in hand and I had to tear 1 down and sign another. Both had the same starting salary, so the decision became really difficult. I chose to join STPL.

My journey in STPL started as an entry-level software engineer in a small office of Zerodha's 3rd floor. I used to live in 1 RB (room bathroom) in Jayanagar, not even 250 sq feet area, but the balcony was good. Having a smoke in morning time was refreshing. I used to walk down to the office, around 2-3 km and come back via an auto rickshaw. I did all sorts of work, starting from helping set up data pipelines in Mongodb, creating APIs for front-facing products, writing CRON jobs and scheduling them. There were 3 people who worked on code back then - me, Ratan Kumar and Rohan Gupta example.

Our team started expanding within 6-8 months and we had to move out of Zerodha’s office. Founders decided to take a rented office in the Indiqube building near Richmond Road, Bangalore. I met super intelligent and motivated folks during the initial phase of scaling STPL. We went from 10k users to 1 lakh users during this phase. We used to work for very long hours, around 12-14 hrs. We partied a lot too. It was like living with a philosophy of “work hard, party harder!". Since then we have scaled like crazy with around 7k TPM during market hours (9:15 AM - 3:30 PM).

Life has been on auto-pilot since then, I’ll write more about our scaling journey in further blogs. But that’s all for now. We are hiring actively and open roles can be seen in our careers page

Why this blog?

I have too much free time nowadays. And I can afford to story-tell the journey of STPL, Tickertape, Windmill Capital, Zerodha AMC etc. I want to keep a note of all the minor details which I have gone through here - good or bad, hoping to impart some knowledge and wisdom. But that’s all for now. Thanks for reading through.
